README.md, before:

# Test Infrastructure with Vagrant

This repository contains definitions of vagrant boxes for testing developments in my other repositories. Execute command `vagrant up` in this folder to spin up all defined boxes in the file `Vagrantfile`.

- Ubuntu 64 (no UI): Spin it up with `vagrant up jammy64`
- Docker on Ubuntu 64 (no UI): Spin it up with `vagrant up docker`

The maintenance of the locally available vagrant boxes can be done as follows:

- Update to the latest image available in online Vagrant Repository: `vagrant box update [box name]`
- Remove outdated images: `vagrant box prune`

## Prerequisites

### Oracle VirtualBox

The configured vagrant boxes use [Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org) as virtualization tool. It has to be installed together with the VirtualBox Guest Additions. The most current version can be used.

### Vagrant Plugins

The following vagrant plugins are required in the local setup:

- vagrant-clean: Destroy all vagrant ressources for all vagrant environments (see [here](https://github.com/mspaulding06/vagrant-clean))
- vagrant-vbguest: Install the host's VB Guest Additions on the guest system (see [here](https://github.com/dotless-de/vagrant-vbguest))

The vagrant plugins can be installed using the command `vagrant plugin install vagrant-clean vagrant-vbguest`

### Synced folder

The configuration of these vagrant boxes will mount a folder on the host to path `/home/vagrant/projects` within the vagrant box. My personal folder layout allows that configuration, because I put this repository `jfandy1982/vagrant-test-boxes` into a folder `~/Projekte/Git-Repos/jfandy1982/`. As I want to use these boxes for isolated tests of my developments, I explicitely want to mount the other projects into the vagrant playground. It is probably not the most ideal option, but as long as I didn't containerize everything, it is OK for me. Check that setup individually.

## Defined vagrant boxes

### focal64

Use this vagrant box for experiments on a plain Ubuntu - e.g. bash scripting.

The initialization script stored in bash script `basic_setup_ubuntu.sh` only perfoms minimal actions. It updates the packages via APT, it installs a few basic packages incl. language packs for German and it finally sets the timezone to "Europe/Berlin".

### docker

Use this vagrant box for app development. It contains a docker installation to spin up various containers.

The initialization script stored in bash script `basic_setup_ubuntu.sh` only perfoms minimal actions. It updates the packages, it installs a few basic packages incl. language packs for German and it finally sets the timezone to "Europe/Berlin".

The script stored in bash script `basic_setup_docker.sh` installs the docker engine as described in the official Docker installation guide for [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/). It also configures the docker service:

- use docker CLI with regular user `vagrant`
- to start up on every boot
- be accessible from the network
- use portainer.io to manage docker containers

#### portainer.io

The portainer.io management can be accessed via [https://192.168.56.20:9000](https://192.168.56.20:9000). The IP address `192.168.56.20` is configured in the configuration of the docker vagrant box (see `Vagrantfile`). The port `9000` is the default port of the portainer.io UI. The container is configured, so that it starts during the boot process of the vagrant box.

Accessing the portainer.io for the first time, these steps are required.

- Set a password for the admin user. This is not done via provisioning here. I assume, you can remember that password easily.
- Uncheck "Allow collection of anonymous statistics. You can find..." option.
- Click on "Create user"
- Choose "Manage the local Docker environment" option.
- Click on "Connect"

You will see the dashboard of portainer.io showing the locally available docker artifacts.

Commit message:

Correct typos & add details for portainer data

README.md, after:

# Test Infrastructure with Vagrant

This repository contains definitions of vagrant boxes for testing developments in my other repositories. Execute command `vagrant up` in this folder to spin up all defined boxes in the file `Vagrantfile`.

- Ubuntu 64 (no UI): Spin it up with `vagrant up jammy64`
- Docker on Ubuntu 64 (no UI): Spin it up with `vagrant up docker`

The maintenance of the locally available vagrant boxes can be done as follows:

- Update to the latest image available in online Vagrant Repository: `vagrant box update [box name]`
- Remove outdated images: `vagrant box prune`

## Prerequisites

### Oracle VirtualBox

The configured vagrant boxes use [Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org) as virtualization tool. It has to be installed together with the VirtualBox Guest Additions. The most current version can be used.

### Vagrant Plugins

The following vagrant plugins are required in the local setup:

- vagrant-clean: Destroy all vagrant resources for all vagrant environments (see [here](https://github.com/mspaulding06/vagrant-clean))
- vagrant-vbguest: Install the host's VB Guest Additions on the guest system (see [here](https://github.com/dotless-de/vagrant-vbguest))

The vagrant plugins can be installed using the command `vagrant plugin install vagrant-clean vagrant-vbguest`

### Synced folder

The configuration of these vagrant boxes will mount a folder on the host to path `/home/vagrant/projects` within the vagrant box. My personal folder layout allows that configuration, because I put this repository `jfandy1982/vagrant-test-boxes` into a folder `~/Projekte/Git-Repos/jfandy1982/`. As I want to use these boxes for isolated tests of my developments, I explicitly want to mount the other projects into the vagrant playground. It is probably not the most ideal option, but as long as I didn't containerize everything, it is OK for me. Check that setup individually.
Additionally, the folder `/vagrant` is bound to this repository folder.

## Defined vagrant boxes

### jammy64

Use this vagrant box for experiments on a plain Ubuntu - e.g. bash scripting.

The initialization script stored in bash script `basic_setup_ubuntu.sh` only performs minimal actions. It updates the packages via APT, it installs a few basic packages incl. language packs for German and it finally sets the timezone to "Europe/Berlin".

### docker

Use this vagrant box for app development. It contains a docker installation to spin up various containers.

The initialization script stored in bash script `basic_setup_ubuntu.sh` only performs minimal actions. It updates the packages, it installs a few basic packages incl. language packs for German and it finally sets the timezone to "Europe/Berlin".

The script stored in bash script `basic_setup_docker.sh` installs the docker engine as described in the official Docker installation guide for [Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/). It also configures the docker service:

- use docker CLI with regular user `vagrant`
- to start up on every boot
- be accessible from the network
- use portainer.io to manage docker containers
- portainer data is saved into a mounted volume `docker_storage/portainer` within the repository of 'vagrant-test-boxes'. Delete the content on the host, if a complete reset is required.

#### portainer.io

The portainer.io management can be accessed via [https://192.168.56.20:9000](https://192.168.56.20:9000). The IP address `192.168.56.20` is configured in the configuration of the docker vagrant box (see `Vagrantfile`). The port `9000` is the default port of the portainer.io UI. The container is configured, so that it starts during the boot process of the vagrant box.

Accessing the portainer.io for the first time, these steps are required.

- Set a password for the admin user. This is not done via provisioning here. I assume, you can remember that password easily.
- Uncheck "Allow collection of anonymous statistics. You can find..." option.
- Click on "Create user"
- Choose "Manage the local Docker environment" option.
- Click on "Connect"

You will see the dashboard of portainer.io showing the locally available docker artifacts.
